.\"/***************************************************************************
.\" *   Copyright (C) 2003-2006 by Thiago Silva                               *
.\" *   thiago.silva@kdemail.net                                              *
.\" *                                                                         *
.\" *   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify  *
.\" *   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by  *
.\" *   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or     *
.\" *   (at your option) any later version.                                   *
.\" *                                                                         *
.\" *   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,       *
.\" *   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of        *
.\" *   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the         *
.\" *   GNU General Public License for more details.                          *
.\" *                                                                         *
.\" *   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License     *
.\" *   along with this program; if not, write to the                         *
.\" *   Free Software Foundation, Inc.,                                       *
.\" *   59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.             *
.\" ***************************************************************************/
.\"
.TH GPT 1
.SH NAME
gpt \- compiler, interpreter and translator for the G-Portugol programming language

.SH SYNOPSIS
  gpt
[
.BR \-vhid
] [
.BI \-ots
output_file
] file1 file2 ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gpt
is a simple compiler for the G-Porutol Language. It is possible to have
a list of files to be included in the compilation setting the GPT_INCLUDE
environment variable, wich should have a list of file paths separated with ":".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-v
Shows version information and exits.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-h
Shows a summary of options and exits.
.br
.ns
.TP
.TP
.BI \-i
Execute
.I interpreting
the source code.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-d
Shows tips in the error report.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-o " output_file"
Compile the source code and save the resulting binary with the name
.I output_file.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-t " output_file"
Translates the source code to the C programming language and saves the
resulting file as
.I output_file.
.br
.ns
.TP
.BI \-s " output_file"
Compiles the source code to assembly source. Saves the resulting code as
.I output_file.
.br
.ns
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nasm (1)

.SH ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

For further information, visit the website:
.br
.BI http://gpt.berlios.de

.SH AUTHOR
Thiago Silva <tsilva@sourcecraft.info>

